

# AISTUDIO FEDERATED

## This project was generated by [Flatlogic Platform](https://flatlogic.com).

  - Frontend: [React.js](https://flatlogic.com/templates?framework%5B%5D=react&sort=default)

  - Design: [Material UI](https://flatlogic.com/templates?design%5B%5D=material&sort=default)

    <details><summary>Frontend Folder Structure</summary> 

    The generated application has the following frontend folder structure: 

    `src` folder which contains your working files that will be used later to create the build. the src folder contains folders as:

      - `actions` - the instructions the user issue to the redux to either write or fetch data from the store;

      - `components` -  this module consists of a collection of UI components of your project; 

      - `context` -  contains all your context files;

      - `images` - contains all images used in your project ; 

      - `pages` - this module contains the general components for CRUD: 

        - `CRUD/Users` folder, which includes `form`, `helpers`, `page`, `tables` folders; 

        - `dashboard` folder;

        - `error` folder;

        - `login` folder;

        - `reset` folder;

        - `starter` folder;

        - `user` folder;

        - `verify` folder.

      - `reducer` - contains functions that take actions from the application, perform an action and return a new state based on the action passed into it.

    `public` - is the web-accessible root of the site. Basically whatever is in that folder can be opened from the browser address bar. The server won't provide user access to files outside the public.
    </details>

  - Backend: [NodeJS](https://flatlogic.com/templates?backend%5B%5D=nodejs&sort=default)

    <details><summary>Backend Folder Structure</summary>   

    The generated application has the following backend folder structure: 

    `src` folder which contains your working files that will be used later to create the build. The src folder contains folders as:

      - `auth` - config the library for authentication and authorization;

      - `db` - contains such folders as:

        - `api` - documentation that is automatically generated by jsdoc or other tools;

        - `migrations` - is a skeleton of the database or all the actions that users do with the database;

        - `models`- what will represent the database for the backend;

        - `seeders` -  the entity that creates the data for the database.

      - `routes` - this folder would contain all the routes that you have created using Express Router and what they do would be exported from a Controller file;

      - `services` - contains such folders as `emails` and `notifications`.   
    </details> 

  - Database: PostgreSQL

  -----------------------
### We offer 2 ways how to start the project locally: by running Frontend and Backend or with Docker.
-----------------------

## To start the project:

### Backend:

> Please change current folder: `cd backend`

#### Install local dependencies:
`yarn install`

  ------------

#### Adjust local db:
##### 1.  Install postgres:

MacOS:

`brew install postgres`

    > if you don’t have ‘brew‘ please install it (https://brew.sh) and repeat step `brew install postgres`.

Ubuntu:

`sudo apt update`

`sudo apt install postgresql postgresql-contrib`

##### 2. Create db and admin user:
Before run and test connection, make sure you have created a database as described in the above configuration. You can use the `psql` command to create a user and database.

`psql postgres --u postgres`

Next, type this command for creating a new user with password then give access for creating the database.

`postgres-# CREATE ROLE admin WITH LOGIN PASSWORD 'admin_pass';`

`postgres-# ALTER ROLE admin CREATEDB;`

Quit `psql` then log in again using the new user that previously created.

`postgres-# \q`

`psql postgres -U admin`

Type this command to creating a new database.

`postgres=> CREATE DATABASE db_{your_project_name};`

Then give that new user privileges to the new database then quit the `psql`.

`postgres=> GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE db_{your_project_name} TO admin;`

`postgres=> \q`

  ------------

#### Create database:
`yarn db:create`

#### Start production build:
`yarn start`

### Frontend:

> Please change current folder: `cd frontend`

  ### Quick Start

  #### 1. Run `yarn install`

  This will install both run-time project dependencies and developer tools listed
  in [package.json](../project-files/package.json) file.

  #### 2. Run `yarn start`

  Runs the app in the development mode.

  Open http://localhost:3000 to view it in the browser. Whenever you modify any of the source files inside the `/src` folder,
  the module bundler ([Webpack](http://webpack.github.io/)) will recompile the
  app on the fly and refresh all the connected browsers.

  #### 3. Run `yarn build`

  Builds the app for production to the build folder.
  It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

  The build is minified and the filenames include the hashes.
  Your app is ready to be deployed!

## To start the project with Docker:
### Description:

The project contains the **docker folder** and the `Dockerfile`.

The `Dockerfile` is used to Deploy the project to Google Cloud.

The **docker folder** contains a couple of helper scripts:

- `docker-compose.yml` (all our services: web, backend, db are described here)
- `start-backend.sh` (starts backend, but only after the database)
- `wait-for-it.sh` (imported from https://github.com/vishnubob/wait-for-it)

    > To avoid breaking the application, we recommend you don't edit the following files: everything that includes the **docker folder** and `Dokerfile`.

## Run services:

1. Install docker compose (https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/)

2. Move to `docker` folder. All next steps should be done from this folder.

   ``` cd docker ```

3. Make executables from `wait-for-it.sh` and `start-backend.sh`:

   ``` chmod +x start-backend.sh && chmod +x wait-for-it.sh ```

4. Download dependend projects for services.

5. Review the docker-compose.yml file. Make sure that all services have Dockerfiles. Only db service doesn't require a Dockerfile.

6. Make sure you have needed ports (see them in `ports`) available on your local machine.

7. Start services:

   7.1. With an empty database `rm -rf data && docker-compose up`

   7.2. With a stored (from previus runs) database data `docker-compose up`

8. Check http://localhost:3000

9. Stop services:

   9.1. Just press `Ctr+C`

## Most common errors:

1. `connection refused`

   There could be many reasons, but the most common are:

  - The port is not open on the destination machine.

  - The port is open on the destination machine, but its backlog of pending connections is full.

  - A firewall between the client and server is blocking access (also check local firewalls).

   After checking for firewalls and that the port is open, use telnet to connect to the IP/port to test connectivity. This removes any potential issues from your application.

   ***MacOS:***

   If you suspect that your SSH service might be down, you can run this command to find out:

   `sudo service ssh status`

   If the command line returns a status of down, then you’ve likely found the reason behind your connectivity error.

   ***Ubuntu:***

   Sometimes a connection refused error can also indicate that there is an IP address conflict on your network. You can search for possible IP conflicts by running:

   `arp-scan -I eth0 -l | grep <ipaddress>`

   `arp-scan -I eth0 -l | grep <ipaddress>`

   and

   `arping <ipaddress>`

2. `yarn db:create` creates database with the assembled tables (on MacOS with Postgres database)

   The workaround - put the next commands to your Postgres database terminal:

   `DROP SCHEMA public CASCADE;`

   `CREATE SCHEMA public;`

   `GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA public TO postgres;`

   `GRANT ALL ON SCHEMA public TO public;`

   Afterwards, continue to start your project in the backend directory by running:

   `yarn start`
